# Reverse engineering project

This folder is for reverse engineering project materials
# Memo for the reverse engineering project
Our data analysis project reverse engineers five major data findings from a Washington Post article titled “Nearly 250 women have been fatally shot by police since 2015,” which was published a few months after Breonna Taylor was shot and killed by police. The story is part of a bigger, ongoing project of the Washington Post; they have been collecting data on every deadly police shooting in the United States since January 2015. This database is still updated regularly, which explains why the findings of each of our “reverse engineering tasks” yielded results that don’t exactly equal the findings in the article (the article was published in September 2020, while the data we used is from the database last updated on September 28, 2021). 

According to the Post, which publishes some of the broader findings from their database on a page called “Fatal Force,” their data collection process “relies primarily on news accounts, social media postings and police reports.”

The main finding of the article was that Black women are killed by police at a disproportionate rate; of the 247 women killed in a police shooting since 2015 (and until the time the article was published), 48 were black. So, roughly 20% of the victims of all female, fatal police shootings were Black, while Black women only make up 13% of the U.S. female population. This particular data finding is reverse engineered below. 

Overall, the reporter(s) who worked on this story did a good job of using the data available to produce a story with depth. They also did a good job of “bringing the data to life”; the reporter elaborated on a few specific instances of fatal police shootings, providing more details and getting quotes from loved ones of the victims. Doing so helps to humanize the story. This story effectively connected Breonna Taylor’s death to a larger web of Black women who were killed by police. 

The reporters used three graphs/data visualizations total in the story, and each one was visually appealing and communicated important data findings. However, they could have used some more data visualizations, as the other major data findings were simply posted in-text. Additionally, this article doesn’t show how they came up with their findings, although they do include a link to the “Fatal Force” page, which does offer some more insight into the article’s findings (it has a “methodology” section that delves deeper into the Post’s process of collecting the data and putting the database together). 

The linked “Fatal Force” page also includes a link to the Washington Post GitHub, where the database is available for download. The database is well-organized and includes important characteristics of each case of a fatal police shooting (name of victim, age, race, gender, etc.). The reporter also does not communicate how the data may be flawed; for example, upon parsing through the data ourselves, there are cases of “N/A” being entered in certain categories for some data entries (examples when race, gender, etc. could not be confirmed). The Post created this database themselves, and it likely required lots of data cleaning and verification before the data was ready to be published. 

